---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: true
inLanguage: null
starred: true
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2015-12-21T06:24:39.441Z'
dateModified: '2015-12-20T20:01:17.882Z'
title: 'Ski & Sail 2016'
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2015-12-20-ski-and-sail-2016.md
published: true
url: ski-and-sail-2016/index.html
_type: Article

---
## Ski & Sail 2016

Join us for a six day long Sail & Ski expedition in **Lyngen**, **Hjørundfjorden or ****Steigen and ****Lofoten.**

We cooperate with guides from all over the world who wants to take their guests to new and exciting areas. Please contact us if you are a guide or want a tailor made trip.

**Lyngen**

The Ski & Sail season in Lyngen starts in March and goes on until the beginning of June.  In Lyngen the mountains rise out of the sea, making for incredible views and the chance to descend from serious alpine style peaks right down to sea level.  The cold arctic weather means that there's snow right down to sea level until late in the season so you can clip on to your skis on the beach.

The boat takes up to six guests in three double cabins. The skipper and mountain guide sleeps in the salon.

The food on board will be fresh, nutritious and mostly local to give the skiers a taste of the local culture and a once in a lifetime experience.

See this video for a taste of what Lyngen has to offer:[http://vimeo.com/12701058][0]

We are offering seven days trip with start and stop on Sundays in and out of Tromsø. But we can also arrange shorter or longer expeditions.

**For more information, please contact:**

Jon Amtrup  
Tel. +47 932 28 926  
[jon@explorenorth.no][1]

**Hjørundfjorden**

We start from **Ålesund** and from there we sail right in to the **Sunnmøre Alps**. We have classics such as **Skårasalen** (1542), **Slogen** (1564), **Grøtdalstinden** (1331), **Dukhornet**(1412) and **Risenosa** (1573).

_Skiing in pure powder. Photo: Emma Rodling_

This area is one of the absolutely best areas for powder skiing with its long winters and lots of snow. You will have a local mountain guide ready every day of our trip. Their local knowledge will make sure we reach the best areas, while their education and experience will grant you a safe trip.

Every day we can sail to the foot of yet another untouched mountain, and when you return to the boat the dinner will be served.

The trip starts and ends in Ålesund every Saturday. See [www.sas.no][2] or[www.norwegian.no][3] for flights.

The 43 foot sailing yacht (2008) has three double cabins, two bathrooms, dinghy, kayak, and diving equipment on board.  We can sail you to the foot of the mountain so that you literally can start your top climb from the deck of our boat.

Please see our [Facebook][4] pages for more pictures, and check out this video from Hjørundfjorden: 

**When**  
February to end of April 2016\. Please let us know your wishes. A typical trip starts and ends Friday.

**Prices**

Please contact us for offers.

**Included**  
Food and non-alcoholic beverages on board Explore North.  
Local mountain guide for six days  
Avalanche safety equipment and safety west on the boat.

**Not included**  
Trip to and from Ålesund  
Personal tour equipment  
Alcoholic beverages can be bought on board

**Other**

Explore North also arranges tailor made expeditions on sea and in mountains all along the Norwegian coast -- summer and winter. Please call to discuss.

**For more information, please contact:**

Jon Amtrup  
Tel. +47 932 28 926  
[jon@explorenorth.no][1]

**Steigen and Lofoten**

Steigen is just a few hours sailing away from Bodø where our 45 foot sailing yacht is located. This area is untouched and wild with easy access to the summits with our yacht. We seldom run in to other skiers or sailors here, so you most likely will have the area for your self. This is a rare experience you will not find in places like Lyngen where there is a lot of skiers on every summit.

**When**

Start from Bodø every Saturday-Saturday from Februar 12th to May 7th.

Please contact us for price offers.

Bodø is only 90 minutes away from Oslo with plane, and the tickets are moderately priced. See[www.sas.no][2] or[www.norwegian.no][3] for flights.

The boat is only 10 minutes walk from the Bodø airport, and the adventure starts here.

Please contact [sture@explorenorth.no][5] for more information and booking.

**Included**  
Food and non-alcoholic beverages on board SY Lille Polaris

**Not included**

Trip to and from Bodø  
Personal tour equipment and avalanche safety equipment  
Alcoholic beverages can be bought on board

**Other**

Explore North also arranges tailor made expeditions on sea and in mountains all along the Norwegian coast -- summer and winter. Please call to discuss.

You can watch a video from one of our Ski & Sail trips:

**For more information, please contact:**

Sture Ellingsen  
Tel. +47 975 01 706  
[sture@explorenorth.no][5]

[0]: http://vimeo.com/12701058
[1]: mailto:jon@explorenorth.no
[2]: http://www.sas.no/
[3]: http://www.norwegian.no/
[4]: http://www.facebook.com/pages/Blommenholm/Explore-North/16397835793?ref=ts#/group.php?gid=6028600764&ref=ts
[5]: mailto:sture@explorenorth.no